1. What command would list all files (except . and ..) in the current working directory?
answer:ls
2. What is the simplest command for adding execute permission to file ~/foo, for all users
(without changing any other permissions)?
answer:chmod +x ~/foo
3. Explain what execute permission means/allows when it is associated with a directory.
answer:You can execute (run) the file, if it's a program or script. For folders, this means accessing files in the folder.

4. Suppose that you wanted all users on the machine to be able to see the contents
of the file ~/public/software/instructions.text. Explain the minimum set of
permissions for files and directories needed to allow this, and any security issues that
arise.
answer:chmod 744 ~/public/software/instructions.text.

5. Suppose that you want to allow (only) other users bob and chuck to be able to access
the above file. Explain what you would have to do differently from what you described
above. (You are not allowed to consider the use of ACLs.)
answer:777 bob chuck (im not sure)
6. How would your answer to the previous problem change if you were to use ACLs (access
control lists)?

7. What are set UID (SUID) files, and when are they typically used?
answer:When set-user identification (setuid) permission is set on an executable file, a process that runs this file is granted access based on the 
owner of the file (usually root), rather than the user who is running the executable file.
 This special permission allows a user to access files and directories that are normally only available to the owner. 
For example, the setuid permission on the passwd command makes it possible for a user to change passwords, 
8. Find one SUID file on a Linux system, and show its “long listing” (permissions, owner,
etc.).
answer:find / -perm +4000
9. Why are SUID root files considered a security issue?
answer:If you don’t want to give credentials of a particular user, but want to run some programs as the owner.and
you don’t want to use SUDO command, but want to give execute permission for a file/script etc.
10. What command would be used to set a file foo to be SUID, and how exactly would it
be done?
answer:chmod u+s file1.txt or chmod 4750 file1.txt

11. What command could determine the process ID (PID) of a running SSH server (sshd)?
answer:$ ps aux | grep {process no}

12. What command would best identify which process is using excessive CPU resources?
answer:top 

13. What command that should definitely terminate the process identified above?
answer:kill PID_of_target_process ex :kill -9 pid
14. What file contains the list of valid user ID’s (UID’s) and their associated usernames?
answer:root files
15. What file contains passwords on a Linux system (if that system is using local authen-
tication rather than NIS, etc.)?
answer: Unix systems keep user account information, including one-way encrypted passwords, in a text file called ``/etc/passwd''
16. What is difference between telnet and ssh. When will you use each command. give examples.
answer: 
    SSH and Telnet commonly serves the same purpose
	SSH is more secure compared to Telnet
	SSH encrypts the data while Telnet sends data in plain text
	SSH uses a public key for authentication while Telnet does not use any authentication
	SSH adds a bit more overhead to the bandwidth compared to Telnet
	Telnet has been all but replaced by SSH in almost all uses

